Hey, guys, what's up?
This is a marathon, and I welcome you to another tutorial on this course on Ruby.
And in this story, we will be studying about escaping characters so we will learn how to escape characters,
how it works and how to avoid escaping characters altogether for some use cases.
If you think that you know all about this.
Make sure to go on with this tutorial and you'll be surprised to know many other things.
So let's dive right in with character escaping in strings.
Now, when using strings in Ruby, we sometimes need to put the code we use to define the string inside
the string itself.
When we do so, we can escape the code character with a backslash symbol.
Now, for example, you have, let's say, some kind of string.
Let's say that you go to some character that is X and hear what we want is that we want to have a letter
that is hello and then whatever name is going to pop up, we want that name to actually show in double
quotation marks.
Now, if you specify those here, that is not going to actually work, because if you specify, let's
say, go to a hill.
And let's say you have something like World War here.
And what do you do is that just dive in the command boats, run this code and as you can see, that
you have got an error, which means that it is a syntax error because you have specified a double code
within a double code.
So what do you have to do actually to avoid that?
Error does not generate.
And you also have HelloWallet on the screen with the word letter that is encoded in double quotation
marks.
Now, that is where escaping correctors comes to your aid.
And what you can do over here is that.
You can specify this way here and then this will help, so you have actually encoded the word.
Walled in between these slashes and what it will do is that, as you can see, that the color of the
double Grecian marks has also changed from green to blue, which means that it is now something as small
as just run accord.
And as you can see, that are Adam brother has successfully generated the world without any kind of
error.
And the latter word is basically in double quotation marks without any kind of error.
So that's how basically you can have a double quotation marks within double quotation marks.
Now.
What about escaping goats in single cottage string?
So let's just try that as well.
And let's say we have now this HelloWallet that is in single quotes, so let's just remove this from
here and let's say we have Haddo and then we have.
This world over here, so let's just run it.
And again, as you can see, that we have got an error message, which means that it is not working.
So what we have to do is that we have to specify these slashes Oakhill.
Now, run this code, and as you can see, that it worked perfectly, as you can see, Halliwell's printed
with this word printed in single quotation marks.
So that's how basically you can use escaping codes in single quotation marks as well.
You can use them in double quotation marks.
All right, so now the next thing is about escaping sequences now besides skorts, as you have seen
in these examples, there are more symbols we can escape in strengths.
For example, a new line is represented by, as you know, backslash.
And so this is called an escape sequence.
So what you can do is that.
We can use the same concept to escape sequences, so let's say we have a statement.
That is let's say hello.
So let's say we have hello and then we have this void and what we want is that we want this helo to
pop up on the first line and we want this word to pop up on the next line.
But we don't want to have multiple states and we want to have this only in a single variable.
So what I specify backslash and our help now is you can see that the color of backslash and is something
different from green, which means that I guess it has identified that this backslash is basically an
escaping sequence.
So if you just run this code, you can see that our job is perfectly done.
Hello is printed on a single line and while it's printed on the second line now, you must be thinking
that we haven't specified any kind of additional backslash or here.
So why did it printed this Hallowell over here?
And the answer is that double quotes actually supports escaping sequences.
So that's why when we specified a backslash in the mail, it automatically detected this skipping sequence.
It changes color and it also done our job.
It printed yellow on a single line.
And then what?
On the second line.
So what if we have a single code, Soheil?
And then let's say you have this statement in which we have Hello World again, so as you can see with
the colors, everything is color the same or underscore.
And as you can see, that HelloWallet is printed with a backslash and in between as it is.
So this means that the single Godes did not identify the skipping sequence we have specified right here.
Now, why does the single code does not support this backslash and or you can see the skipping sequence?
Not the answer to that is very simple.
Now, since Democrats support this kind of thing that is escaping sequences.
So, for example, you have, let's say, a line in which you want to have this thing printed right
to a hill, or let's say you want to have something like backslash de backslash or something like that
printed and you want that to print as it is on your ATM or other.
Now, if single goods were also to identify this sequence, for me that is a skipping sequence and it
would have created backslash and as a skipping sequence and it would have printed hello on this line
and wild on the second line.
So there has to be a method in which if you want this thing as it is to pop up on your Adam runner,
then you can use single codes for that.
If you want to have use skipping sequences, then you're going to have to use double code.
So that is what is basically provided here in Ruby, so that if you want an output to pop as it is,
then you can use single codes.
And if you want to have used it, skipping sequences, then what are you going to do is that you can
simply go on with the double cords.
Now here to code, the difference between single code and double code is also very important.
The difference between single code and double coded string in Ruby is the way the string definition
represent is skipping sequences in double coded strings.
You can write escape sequences and Ruby will output that translated meaning a backslash n means a new
line.
Whereas in single coded strings, however, skipping sequences are escaped and returned.
There are literal definition where a backslash remains a backslash and a board string types have their
use cases.
Of course, it's likely you will use the string of escape sequences and to use their translated meaning,
a new line or a single gorz are useful for avoiding escape sequences themselves.
As I told you, it is useful for demonstrating their usage and avoiding accidentally using escape sequences
you did not intend to use.
Then you have the escaping interpellation thing as well, which you have covered in the previous tutorials
as well.
Ruby support interpellation inside string.
But once again, not all string definitions are created.
Equal interpolation only work in double coded strings.
So you have also seen that in the previous tutorials that if you use interpolation in between single
strings, then it is going to simply ignore the interpolation.
It is going to print the string as it is.
But if you use interpolation in the double coded strings, then what it is going to do is that it is
going to treat it as interpolation and it is going to calculate some kind of result for you.
So that is also again, provided by default by Ruby, so that if you want something to pop up as it
is, so you will have an option to use single codes to want to print that thing as it is on your output
screen.
But if you want to use interpolation, then you can go on with the double strings.
And that is again, have the very same reason.
That is if you don't want something to pop up and it popped up.
So that's why you are given an option in Ruby.
Then finally talking about the person notation for string.
Now, in the previous tutorial, you have seen the methods to have multi line strings in Ruby, in which
the last method was the person notation.
Now that Ruby programming language is basically something inspired by the programming language and it
gives us many shorthand for some common definitions.
Now, the same behavior for single coded and double coded strings applies to the person date notation
as well.
The person did sign and the percentage capital.
Q It behaves the same way as double coded strings as you have seen in the previous tutorial, whereas
the person they small behave the same way as single coded strings.
Now the problem with the person condition is that you now need to escape the parenthesis character instead
of the course when the parenthesis are not balanced.
So let me give you an example of unbalanced and balanced parenthesis as well.
So we will just remove this.
So let's say you have this person design where we have these brackets, so what we can do is that we
going to have hello world here.
Don't have to be it has to be OK.
So now what we can do is that let's say we want to encode this word in double quotation marks or what
we will do is that we will simply specify double quotation marks here.
And let's say we have some characters after that as well.
So what we will do is that we will just write in votes, run this code.
And as you can see, that it has perfectly printed whatever we want it to print.
Now, as I have told you, that it works the very same way as double coded string.
So it has basically created these double digit marks as escape sequences and it has printed them as
it is.
So it basically works the same way as did our output.
That was hello.
And then we specified.
World with that in which we write in world, but when we printed this line, it generated an error.
So what we did was that we specify a backslash over here and then a backslash over here as well.
So this tango here and this thing over here behaves in the very same way.
So what if we have, let's say, some kind of unbalanced parenthesis?
For example, we specify, let's say one word bracket or hail at the end.
So if you run the score, as you can see, that we have got an error message.
So what do you have to do is that you have to specify a backslash where he'll run the scored and now
it is going to run perfectly.
And you can see that you have got your bracket.
But to have this bracket printed right over here, you have to specify this backslash so that they treat
it as a.
Escape sequence or escape character here, because it is not any kind of sequence, it is an escape
character, so.
The same thing we did in our previous example, where we have to specify a backslash with a double quotation
marks to treat it as.
All right, let's assemble within a symbol and to print it as it is on the Adam rather, we have to
specify a backslash with the quotation mark now in here, since the double Goodison Marks are not used
and you have to use brackets instead of the double quotation marks.
So if you specify an unbalanced parenthesis over here, as you can see that you've got two over here
and one over here, which means that they are not balanced.
Then what do you have to do is that you have to specify a backslash with the additional bracket you
have specified so that it does not treat it as a double quotation mark type of tango here and treat
it as a part of whatever is printed in these brackets.
So what if we have, let's say, balanced parenthesis, then let's say we have bracket over here as
well.
So now our apprentices are perfectly balanced around the score, and as you can see that you have got
your world, which is included in these round brackets, you didn't specify any kind of escape.
Sorry, you didn't specify that backslash over here.
But what it did that it printed this output very perfectly on your Adam runner.
This is because you have the parenthesis balanced.
So now you don't need any kind of backslash right over here.
So let's say, what if we have now a single quotation mark with the balanced parenthesis, then automatically
you know that it is not going to work on this format because the person did sign and then we have the
person HQ.
It supports the Goodison mark and it acts like the double coalition, Mark, if you want to have the
single coalition more than you have to use the smolkin.
So that's how it is going to work.
And you know about the Capital Gang Smolkin concept from the previous tutorials now.
Again, we have the same rules that are applied here as with normal single and double coated strings,
escape sequences and interpellation are escaped by default in the single coded strings.
So if you use.
Single quotation string, and you use interpolation in between, these person did sign over here.
It is going to simply get ignored if you use the single quotation marks over here.
So, for example.
You just removed this from here and let's say we have.
Double quotation marks of a hair in which we have, let's say, hashtag in which we have a name, and
at the top let's specify a variable that is name and it is equal to, let's say, my name or underscored
and it is going to run perfectly.
But what if we specify a single quotation marks over here?
Remove this as well.
Horrendous good.
And as you can see, that it has also printed Hello America right over here, which means that interpellation
has worked in single quotation marks because it is treating this Tingo Hill as a double quotation marks
over here.
Now, what did you specify a small will here and run this code?
As you can see that it has printed this thing right over here as the very same as it is printed.
And it did not treat it as an interpolation because as you know, that this molecule represents the
single quotation marks.
And as you know, that interpellation does not work with that.
And if you specify a capitalist, you will run this code, then it is going to treat this as an interpolation.
So if you have the person didn't sign or you have the WQ and you have interpellation in between a single
quotation marks, but in the percentage in percentage capital, and then it is going to treat it as
an interpolation.
But if you have this set, this molecule here and then let's say you have the double quotation marks
over here.
Run the underscored then even it is not going to treat it as an interpellation event or you have interpellation
in between double quotation marks, but since you have single quotation marks outside, that is because
of this person.
So that's why it is going to escape the interpellation and it is going to basically treat this as a
normal string.
So I guess you have understood a skipping sequence.
It was a lengthy topic, I know, but it was a very interesting topic and it was a very, very, very
important topic as well.
Because if you don't know the difference between a single quotation marks and double quotation mark,
then in the future tutorials, you are going to face a lot of problems.
We are going to be using all those concepts in some kind of programs that are going to be detailed programs.
And you need to know that what is going to be printed if you have things the very same, and what is
going to be done if you have double question marks and single quotation marks where you have to use
interpolation, where interpolation is not going to be treated as interpellation, and you need to know
about this person, HQ percentage capital and the person design because they are going to be used a
lot.
So I guess that's it with this tutorial.
Thank you so much, guys, for watching.
And I'll see you guys in the next Auriel.